i18n/en/docusaurus-plugin-content-docs/current/features/zero_with_chunk.md, before:

# Zero Redundancy Optimizer with chunk-based memory management

Author: [Hongxiu Liu](https://github.com/ver217), [Jiarui Fang](https://github.com/feifeibear), [Zijian Ye](https://github.com/ZijianYY)
**Prerequisite:**
- [Zero Redundancy Optimizer and Zero Offload](../features/zero_redundancy_and_zero_offload.md)

**Example Code**

- [Train GPT with Colossal-AI](https://github.com/hpcaitech/ColossalAI/tree/main/examples/language/gpt)

**Related Paper**
- [ZeRO: Memory Optimizations Toward Training Trillion Parameter Models](https://arxiv.org/abs/1910.02054)
- [ZeRO-Offload: Democratizing Billion-Scale Model Training](https://arxiv.org/abs/2101.06840)
- [ZeRO-Infinity: Breaking the GPU Memory Wall for Extreme Scale Deep Learning](https://arxiv.org/abs/2104.07857)
- [PatrickStar: Parallel Training of Pre-trained Models via Chunk-based Memory Management](https://arxiv.org/abs/2108.05818)

## Introduction

In the previous tutorial, we introduced the Zero Redundancy Optimizer (ZeRO), this article will introduce the Zero Redundancy Optimizer with chunk-based memory management.

In the previous tutorial, we distributed the model by sharding the parameters. The advantage of this method is that the memory of each node is load balanced. But this approach has two significiant disadvantages. First, during communication, a temporary memory buffer needs to be allocated and released afterwards, leading to the memory fragmentation problem. Secondly, using tensor as the granularity for communication will cause the network bandwidth underutilized. Generally, the longer the transmitted message length, the higher the bandwidth utilization.

Using the Chunk mechanism introduced in ColossalAI v0.1.8, we can improve the efficiency of ZeRO. We store a continuous set of parameters in initialization order into a Chunk (a chunk is a continuous memory space), and each Chunk has the same size. Organizing memory in chunks can lead to efficient use of network bandwidth between PCI-e and GPU-GPU, reduce the number of communications, and avoid potential memory fragmentation.

Before v0.1.8, ZeRO had a high communication cost for parameter communications. If a parameter was used multiple times in several consecutive operators, there will be repeated communications operations, and the efficiency was highly damaged. This situation is very common when using the Gradient Checkpoint technique, and the parameter will recompute the forward propagation during backward propagation.

Taking GPT as an example, its Checkpoint will be applied to each GPT Block, and each GPT Block contains a Self-Attention layer and an MLP layer. During the backward pass, the forward of the Self-Attention layer and the MLP layer will be computed in turn, and then the backward of the MLP layer and the Self-Attention layer will be computed in turn.

In addition, due to the communication and memory movement of small Tensors, the bandwidth of NVLINK and PCI-E cannot be fully utilized, and each communication and memory movement has the overhead of kernel launch. After using Chunk, multiple small Tensor communication and memory movement can be changed into one large Tensor communication and memory movement, which not only improves bandwidth utilization but also reduces the overhead of kernel launch.

We also provide a lightweight chunk search mechanism to help users automatically find the chunk size with the smallest memory fragmentation.

## Usage

We provide two ways to allow different versions of ColossalAI to use the ZeRO with chunk-based memory management.

### ChunkManager + GeminiManager

For ColossalAI v0.1.9 and v0.1.10, we can use `ChunkManager` + `GeminiManager` to use ZeRO with chunk-based memory management.

Make sure your model is initialized in `ColoInitContext`：
```python
with ColoInitContext(device='cpu', default_dist_spec=default_dist_spec, default_pg=default_pg):
  model = gpt2_medium(checkpoint=True)
```
Note that the type of `device` must be `torch.device`, for example：`torch.device('cpu')`, `torch.device('cuda:0')`。

```python
chunk_size = ChunkManager.search_chunk_size(model, 64 * 1024**2, 32)
gemini_manager = GeminiManager(placememt_policy, chunk_manager)
chunk_manager = ChunkManager(chunk_size,
                             pg,
                             enable_distributed_storage=True,
                             init_device=GeminiManager.get_default_device(placememt_policy))
model = ZeroDDP(model, gemini_manager)
```
`PLACEMENT_POLICY` describes the placement policy Gemini used. Currently we support `'cuda'`, `'cpu'` and `'auto'` three strategies. For more details aboud Gemini, click [here](../advanced_tutorials/meet_gemini.md). If it's 'cpu', parameters, gradients and optimizer states will be offloaded to CPU, which means min CUDA memory will be used.If it's 'cuda', they won't be offloaded, which means max CUDA memory will be used.If it's 'auto', they are moving dynamically based on CPU and CUDA memory usage. It will utilize heterogeneous memory space evenly and well.

If you don't want to use Chunk, just set the first parameter `chunk_size` passed to `ChunkManager` to `None`.

`enable_distributed_storage` indicates whether to store the model in a distributed manner, that is, whether to use ZeRO.


```python
optimizer = GeminiAdamOptimizer(model, lr=1e-3, initial_scale=2**5)
```
This completes the initialization of the optimizer. 

```python
optimizer.zero_grad()
outputs = model(input_ids, attn_mask)
loss = criterion(outputs, input_ids)
optimizer.backward(loss)
optimizer.step()
```
Training codes.

### GeminiDDP

If your ColossalAI version is greater than v0.1.10, we will use `GeminiDDP` to use ZeRO with chunk-based memory management. This is our new torch.Module wrapper which uses ZeRO-DP and Gemini. ZeRO is for parallelism and Gemini is for memory management.

Also Make sure that your model is initialized under the context of ColoInitContext.

```python
with ColoInitContext(device='cpu', default_dist_spec=default_dist_spec, default_pg=default_pg):
  model = gpt2_medium(checkpoint=True)
```

Define the model parameters as follows:

```python
chunk_manager = init_chunk_manager(model=module,
                                           init_device=device,
                                           hidden_dim=hidden_dim,
                                           search_range_mb=search_range_mb,
                                           min_chunk_size_mb=min_chunk_size_mb)
gemini_manager = GeminiManager(placement_policy, chunk_manager)
```

`hidden_dim` is the hidden dimension of DNN. Users can provide this argument to speed up searching. If users do not know this argument before training, it is ok. We will use a default value 1024. `min_chunk_size_mb` is the the minimum chunk size in MegaByte. If the aggregate size of parameters is still samller than the minimum chunk size, all parameters will be compacted into one small chunk.

The optimizer initialization code and training code are consistent with the previous method.

### Train GPT

In this example, we use `Hugging Face Transformers`. You have to install `transformers` before running this example. We will take `GPT2 Medium` as an example here. 

For simplicity, we just use randomly generated data here.

First, we nned to simply wrap `Hugging Face Transformers`:

```python
class GPTLMModel(nn.Module):

    def __init__(self,
                 hidden_size=768,
                 num_layers=12,
                 num_attention_heads=12,
                 max_seq_len=1024,
                 vocab_size=50257,
                 checkpoint=False):
        super().__init__()
        self.checkpoint = checkpoint
        self.model = GPT2LMHeadModel(
            GPT2Config(n_embd=hidden_size,
                       n_layer=num_layers,
                       n_head=num_attention_heads,
                       n_positions=max_seq_len,
                       n_ctx=max_seq_len,
                       vocab_size=vocab_size))
        if checkpoint:
            self.model.gradient_checkpointing_enable()

    def forward(self, input_ids, attention_mask):
        return self.model(input_ids=input_ids, attention_mask=attention_mask, use_cache=not self.checkpoint)[0]

def gpt2_medium(checkpoint=False):
    return GPTLMModel(hidden_size=1024, num_layers=24, num_attention_heads=16, checkpoint=checkpoint)
```

Define our loss function:

```python
class GPTLMLoss(nn.Module):

    def __init__(self):
        super().__init__()
        self.loss_fn = nn.CrossEntropyLoss()

    def forward(self, logits, labels):
        shift_logits = logits[..., :-1, :].contiguous()
        shift_labels = labels[..., 1:].contiguous()
        return self.loss_fn(shift_logits.view(-1, shift_logits.size(-1)), shift_labels.view(-1))
```

Define tensor parallel and parameter sharding strategies for tensor parallelism:

```python
def tensor_parallelize(model: torch.nn.Module, pg: ProcessGroup):
    for mn, module in model.named_modules():
        for pn, param in module.named_parameters(recurse=False):
            if hasattr(param, 'visited'):
                continue
            param.set_dist_spec(ReplicaSpec())
            if 'mlp.c_fc' in mn:
                if 'weight' in pn or 'bias' in pn:
                    split_param_col_tp1d(param, pg) 
                    param.compute_spec.set_output_replicate(False)
                else:
                    param.set_dist_spec(ReplicaSpec())
            elif 'mlp.c_proj' in mn:
                if 'weight' in pn:
                    split_param_row_tp1d(param, pg)   
                else:
                    param.set_dist_spec(ReplicaSpec())
            elif 'wte' in mn or 'wpe' in mn:
                split_param_col_tp1d(param, pg)    
            elif 'c_attn' in mn or 'c_proj' in mn:
                split_param_col_tp1d(param, pg)   
            else:
                param.set_dist_spec(ReplicaSpec())

            param.visited = True
def split_param_single_dim_tp1d(dim: int, param: ColoParameter, pg: ProcessGroup):
    spec = (ShardSpec([dim], [pg.tp_world_size()]), ComputeSpec(ComputePattern.TP1D))
    param.set_tensor_spec(*spec)


def split_param_row_tp1d(param: ColoParameter, pg: ProcessGroup):
    split_param_single_dim_tp1d(0, param, pg)


def split_param_col_tp1d(param: ColoParameter, pg: ProcessGroup):
    split_param_single_dim_tp1d(-1, param, pg)
```

Define a model which uses Gemini + ZeRO DDP:

```python
def gemini_zero_dpp(model: torch.nn.Module, pg: ProcessGroup, placememt_policy: str = "auto"):
    cai_version = colossalai.__version__
    if version.parse(cai_version) > version.parse("0.1.10"):
        from colossalai.nn.parallel import GeminiDDP
        model = GeminiDDP(model,
                          device=get_current_device(),
                          placement_policy=placememt_policy,
                          pin_memory=True,
                          search_range_mb=32)
    elif version.parse(cai_version) <= version.parse("0.1.10") and version.parse(cai_version) >= version.parse("0.1.9"):
        from colossalai.gemini import ChunkManager, GeminiManager
        chunk_size = ChunkManager.search_chunk_size(model, 64 * 1024**2, 32)
        gemini_manager = GeminiManager(placememt_policy, chunk_manager)
        chunk_manager = ChunkManager(chunk_size,
                                     pg,
                                     enable_distributed_storage=True,
                                     init_device=GeminiManager.get_default_device(placememt_policy))
        model = ZeroDDP(model, gemini_manager)
    else:
        raise NotImplemented(f"CAI version {cai_version} is not supported")
    return model
```

As we pre-train GPT in this example, we just use a simple language model loss.

Write a function to get random inputs:

```python
def get_data(batch_size, seq_len, vocab_size):
    input_ids = torch.randint(0, vocab_size, (batch_size, seq_len), device=torch.cuda.current_device())
    attention_mask = torch.ones_like(input_ids)
    return input_ids, attention_mask
```

Finally, we can define our training loop:

```python
def main():
    args = parse_args()
    BATCH_SIZE = 8
    SEQ_LEN = 1024
    VOCAB_SIZE = 50257
    NUM_STEPS = 10
    colossalai.launch_from_torch(config={})

    # build criterion
    criterion = GPTLMLoss()

    torch.manual_seed(123)
    default_pg = ProcessGroup(tp_degree=args.tp_degree)
    default_dist_spec = ShardSpec([-1], [args.tp_degree]) if args.shardinit else None
    # build GPT model
    with ColoInitContext(device='cpu', default_dist_spec=default_dist_spec, default_pg=default_pg):
      model = gpt2_medium(checkpoint=True)
    pg = default_pg
    # Tensor Parallelism (TP)
    tensor_parallelize(model, pg)
    # Gemini + ZeRO DP, Note it must be used after TP
    model = gemini_zero_dpp(model, pg, args.placement)
    # build optimizer
    optimizer = GeminiAdamOptimizer(model, lr=1e-3, initial_scale=2**5)
    numel = sum([p.numel() for p in model.parameters()])
    get_tflops_func = partial(get_tflops, numel, BATCH_SIZE, SEQ_LEN)
    torch.cuda.synchronize()
    model.train()
    for n in range(NUM_STEPS):
        # we just use randomly generated data here
        input_ids, attn_mask = get_data(BATCH_SIZE, SEQ_LEN, VOCAB_SIZE)
        optimizer.zero_grad()
        outputs = model(input_ids, attn_mask)
        loss = criterion(outputs, input_ids)
        optimizer.backward(loss)
        optimizer.step()

    torch.cuda.synchronize()
```

The complete example can be found on [Train GPT with Colossal-AI](https://github.com/hpcaitech/ColossalAI/tree/main/examples/language/gpt).

Commit message:

update import model in zero_with_chunk

i18n/en/docusaurus-plugin-content-docs/current/features/zero_with_chunk.md, after:

# Zero Redundancy Optimizer with chunk-based memory management

Author: [Hongxiu Liu](https://github.com/ver217), [Jiarui Fang](https://github.com/feifeibear), [Zijian Ye](https://github.com/ZijianYY)
**Prerequisite:**
- [Zero Redundancy Optimizer and Zero Offload](../features/zero_redundancy_and_zero_offload.md)

**Example Code**

- [Train GPT with Colossal-AI](https://github.com/hpcaitech/ColossalAI/tree/main/examples/language/gpt)

**Related Paper**
- [ZeRO: Memory Optimizations Toward Training Trillion Parameter Models](https://arxiv.org/abs/1910.02054)
- [ZeRO-Offload: Democratizing Billion-Scale Model Training](https://arxiv.org/abs/2101.06840)
- [ZeRO-Infinity: Breaking the GPU Memory Wall for Extreme Scale Deep Learning](https://arxiv.org/abs/2104.07857)
- [PatrickStar: Parallel Training of Pre-trained Models via Chunk-based Memory Management](https://arxiv.org/abs/2108.05818)

## Introduction

In the previous tutorial, we introduced the Zero Redundancy Optimizer (ZeRO), this article will introduce the Zero Redundancy Optimizer with chunk-based memory management.

In the previous tutorial, we distributed the model by sharding the parameters. The advantage of this method is that the memory of each node is load balanced. But this approach has two significiant disadvantages. First, during communication, a temporary memory buffer needs to be allocated and released afterwards, leading to the memory fragmentation problem. Secondly, using tensor as the granularity for communication will cause the network bandwidth underutilized. Generally, the longer the transmitted message length, the higher the bandwidth utilization.

Using the Chunk mechanism introduced in ColossalAI v0.1.8, we can improve the efficiency of ZeRO. We store a continuous set of parameters in initialization order into a Chunk (a chunk is a continuous memory space), and each Chunk has the same size. Organizing memory in chunks can lead to efficient use of network bandwidth between PCI-e and GPU-GPU, reduce the number of communications, and avoid potential memory fragmentation.

Before v0.1.8, ZeRO had a high communication cost for parameter communications. If a parameter was used multiple times in several consecutive operators, there will be repeated communications operations, and the efficiency was highly damaged. This situation is very common when using the Gradient Checkpoint technique, and the parameter will recompute the forward propagation during backward propagation.

Taking GPT as an example, its Checkpoint will be applied to each GPT Block, and each GPT Block contains a Self-Attention layer and an MLP layer. During the backward pass, the forward of the Self-Attention layer and the MLP layer will be computed in turn, and then the backward of the MLP layer and the Self-Attention layer will be computed in turn.

In addition, due to the communication and memory movement of small Tensors, the bandwidth of NVLINK and PCI-E cannot be fully utilized, and each communication and memory movement has the overhead of kernel launch. After using Chunk, multiple small Tensor communication and memory movement can be changed into one large Tensor communication and memory movement, which not only improves bandwidth utilization but also reduces the overhead of kernel launch.

We also provide a lightweight chunk search mechanism to help users automatically find the chunk size with the smallest memory fragmentation.

## Usage

We provide two ways to allow different versions of ColossalAI to use the ZeRO with chunk-based memory management.

### ChunkManager + GeminiManager

For ColossalAI v0.1.9 and v0.1.10, we can use `ChunkManager` + `GeminiManager` to use ZeRO with chunk-based memory management.

Make sure your model is initialized in `ColoInitContext`：
```python
with ColoInitContext(device='cpu', default_dist_spec=default_dist_spec, default_pg=default_pg):
  model = gpt2_medium(checkpoint=True)
```
Note that the type of `device` must be `torch.device`, for example：`torch.device('cpu')`, `torch.device('cuda:0')`。

```python
chunk_size = ChunkManager.search_chunk_size(model, 64 * 1024**2, 32)
gemini_manager = GeminiManager(placememt_policy, chunk_manager)
chunk_manager = ChunkManager(chunk_size,
                             pg,
                             enable_distributed_storage=True,
                             init_device=GeminiManager.get_default_device(placememt_policy))
model = ZeroDDP(model, gemini_manager)
```
`PLACEMENT_POLICY` describes the placement policy Gemini used. Currently we support `'cuda'`, `'cpu'` and `'auto'` three strategies. For more details aboud Gemini, click [here](../advanced_tutorials/meet_gemini.md). If it's 'cpu', parameters, gradients and optimizer states will be offloaded to CPU, which means min CUDA memory will be used.If it's 'cuda', they won't be offloaded, which means max CUDA memory will be used.If it's 'auto', they are moving dynamically based on CPU and CUDA memory usage. It will utilize heterogeneous memory space evenly and well.

If you don't want to use Chunk, just set the first parameter `chunk_size` passed to `ChunkManager` to `None`.

`enable_distributed_storage` indicates whether to store the model in a distributed manner, that is, whether to use ZeRO.


```python
optimizer = GeminiAdamOptimizer(model, lr=1e-3, initial_scale=2**5)
```
This completes the initialization of the optimizer. 

```python
optimizer.zero_grad()
outputs = model(input_ids, attn_mask)
loss = criterion(outputs, input_ids)
optimizer.backward(loss)
optimizer.step()
```
Training codes.

### GeminiDDP

If your ColossalAI version is greater than v0.1.10, we will use `GeminiDDP` to use ZeRO with chunk-based memory management. This is our new torch.Module wrapper which uses ZeRO-DP and Gemini. ZeRO is for parallelism and Gemini is for memory management.

Also Make sure that your model is initialized under the context of ColoInitContext.

```python
with ColoInitContext(device='cpu', default_dist_spec=default_dist_spec, default_pg=default_pg):
  model = gpt2_medium(checkpoint=True)
```

Define the model parameters as follows:

```python
chunk_manager = init_chunk_manager(model=module,
                                           init_device=device,
                                           hidden_dim=hidden_dim,
                                           search_range_mb=search_range_mb,
                                           min_chunk_size_mb=min_chunk_size_mb)
gemini_manager = GeminiManager(placement_policy, chunk_manager)
```

`hidden_dim` is the hidden dimension of DNN. Users can provide this argument to speed up searching. If users do not know this argument before training, it is ok. We will use a default value 1024. `min_chunk_size_mb` is the the minimum chunk size in MegaByte. If the aggregate size of parameters is still samller than the minimum chunk size, all parameters will be compacted into one small chunk.

The optimizer initialization code and training code are consistent with the previous method.

### Train GPT

In this example, we use `Hugging Face Transformers`. You have to install `transformers` before running this example. We will take `GPT2 Medium` as an example here. 

For simplicity, we just use randomly generated data here.

First we only need to import GPT2LMHeadModel from Huggingface transformers to define our model, which does not require users to define or modify the model, so that users can use it more conveniently.

```python
class GPTLMModel(nn.Module):

    def __init__(self,
                 hidden_size=768,
                 num_layers=12,
                 num_attention_heads=12,
                 max_seq_len=1024,
                 vocab_size=50257,
                 checkpoint=False):
        super().__init__()
        self.checkpoint = checkpoint
        self.model = GPT2LMHeadModel(
            GPT2Config(n_embd=hidden_size,
                       n_layer=num_layers,
                       n_head=num_attention_heads,
                       n_positions=max_seq_len,
                       n_ctx=max_seq_len,
                       vocab_size=vocab_size))
        if checkpoint:
            self.model.gradient_checkpointing_enable()

    def forward(self, input_ids, attention_mask):
        return self.model(input_ids=input_ids, attention_mask=attention_mask, use_cache=not self.checkpoint)[0]

def gpt2_medium(checkpoint=False):
    return GPTLMModel(hidden_size=1024, num_layers=24, num_attention_heads=16, checkpoint=checkpoint)
```

Define our loss function:

```python
class GPTLMLoss(nn.Module):

    def __init__(self):
        super().__init__()
        self.loss_fn = nn.CrossEntropyLoss()

    def forward(self, logits, labels):
        shift_logits = logits[..., :-1, :].contiguous()
        shift_labels = labels[..., 1:].contiguous()
        return self.loss_fn(shift_logits.view(-1, shift_logits.size(-1)), shift_labels.view(-1))
```

Define tensor parallel and parameter sharding strategies for tensor parallelism:

```python
def tensor_parallelize(model: torch.nn.Module, pg: ProcessGroup):
    for mn, module in model.named_modules():
        for pn, param in module.named_parameters(recurse=False):
            if hasattr(param, 'visited'):
                continue
            param.set_dist_spec(ReplicaSpec())
            if 'mlp.c_fc' in mn:
                if 'weight' in pn or 'bias' in pn:
                    split_param_col_tp1d(param, pg) 
                    param.compute_spec.set_output_replicate(False)
                else:
                    param.set_dist_spec(ReplicaSpec())
            elif 'mlp.c_proj' in mn:
                if 'weight' in pn:
                    split_param_row_tp1d(param, pg)   
                else:
                    param.set_dist_spec(ReplicaSpec())
            elif 'wte' in mn or 'wpe' in mn:
                split_param_col_tp1d(param, pg)    
            elif 'c_attn' in mn or 'c_proj' in mn:
                split_param_col_tp1d(param, pg)   
            else:
                param.set_dist_spec(ReplicaSpec())

            param.visited = True
def split_param_single_dim_tp1d(dim: int, param: ColoParameter, pg: ProcessGroup):
    spec = (ShardSpec([dim], [pg.tp_world_size()]), ComputeSpec(ComputePattern.TP1D))
    param.set_tensor_spec(*spec)


def split_param_row_tp1d(param: ColoParameter, pg: ProcessGroup):
    split_param_single_dim_tp1d(0, param, pg)


def split_param_col_tp1d(param: ColoParameter, pg: ProcessGroup):
    split_param_single_dim_tp1d(-1, param, pg)
```

Define a model which uses Gemini + ZeRO DDP:

```python
def gemini_zero_dpp(model: torch.nn.Module, pg: ProcessGroup, placememt_policy: str = "auto"):
    cai_version = colossalai.__version__
    if version.parse(cai_version) > version.parse("0.1.10"):
        from colossalai.nn.parallel import GeminiDDP
        model = GeminiDDP(model,
                          device=get_current_device(),
                          placement_policy=placememt_policy,
                          pin_memory=True,
                          search_range_mb=32)
    elif version.parse(cai_version) <= version.parse("0.1.10") and version.parse(cai_version) >= version.parse("0.1.9"):
        from colossalai.gemini import ChunkManager, GeminiManager
        chunk_size = ChunkManager.search_chunk_size(model, 64 * 1024**2, 32)
        gemini_manager = GeminiManager(placememt_policy, chunk_manager)
        chunk_manager = ChunkManager(chunk_size,
                                     pg,
                                     enable_distributed_storage=True,
                                     init_device=GeminiManager.get_default_device(placememt_policy))
        model = ZeroDDP(model, gemini_manager)
    else:
        raise NotImplemented(f"CAI version {cai_version} is not supported")
    return model
```

As we pre-train GPT in this example, we just use a simple language model loss.

Write a function to get random inputs:

```python
def get_data(batch_size, seq_len, vocab_size):
    input_ids = torch.randint(0, vocab_size, (batch_size, seq_len), device=torch.cuda.current_device())
    attention_mask = torch.ones_like(input_ids)
    return input_ids, attention_mask
```

Finally, we can define our training loop:

```python
def main():
    args = parse_args()
    BATCH_SIZE = 8
    SEQ_LEN = 1024
    VOCAB_SIZE = 50257
    NUM_STEPS = 10
    colossalai.launch_from_torch(config={})

    # build criterion
    criterion = GPTLMLoss()

    torch.manual_seed(123)
    default_pg = ProcessGroup(tp_degree=args.tp_degree)
    default_dist_spec = ShardSpec([-1], [args.tp_degree]) if args.shardinit else None
    # build GPT model
    with ColoInitContext(device='cpu', default_dist_spec=default_dist_spec, default_pg=default_pg):
      model = gpt2_medium(checkpoint=True)
    pg = default_pg
    # Tensor Parallelism (TP)
    tensor_parallelize(model, pg)
    # Gemini + ZeRO DP, Note it must be used after TP
    model = gemini_zero_dpp(model, pg, args.placement)
    # build optimizer
    optimizer = GeminiAdamOptimizer(model, lr=1e-3, initial_scale=2**5)
    numel = sum([p.numel() for p in model.parameters()])
    get_tflops_func = partial(get_tflops, numel, BATCH_SIZE, SEQ_LEN)
    torch.cuda.synchronize()
    model.train()
    for n in range(NUM_STEPS):
        # we just use randomly generated data here
        input_ids, attn_mask = get_data(BATCH_SIZE, SEQ_LEN, VOCAB_SIZE)
        optimizer.zero_grad()
        outputs = model(input_ids, attn_mask)
        loss = criterion(outputs, input_ids)
        optimizer.backward(loss)
        optimizer.step()

    torch.cuda.synchronize()
```

The complete example can be found on [Train GPT with Colossal-AI](https://github.com/hpcaitech/ColossalAI/tree/main/examples/language/gpt).
